So now that we have sent a number of messages to our JMS destinations,
let's look at how you can consume them.
It is possible to consume a message from a queue or a topic using the
same JmsTemplate that we saw in the previous section.
There are a number of methods that allow you to consume messages,
and these generally fall into four categories,
which are receive, receiveSelected, receiveAndConvert,
and recieveSelectedAndConvert.
All methods are blocking,
in that they will wait for a message to be received
before the thread resumes execution.
The methods with convert in the name will use the MessageConverter to convert
the received message into the required business object.
The receive and receiveSelected methods receive a raw
JMS message for you to work with.
The methods with selected in the name allow you to
provide a messageSelector as a parameter.
As we saw in an earlier module,
one use case of this is to allow for synchronous messaging,
and this is a good example of how to use the JmsTemplate.
In this small example, I'm sending a message to the REQUEST_QUEUE.
I'm using a message post processor to get a reference
to the JMS message object itself.
Once the message has been sent,
I can get the messageID from the message reference,
and then call receiveSelectedAndConvert,
which consumes from the RESPONSE_QUEUE.
It uses a messageSelector based on the CorrelationID,
and then converts the object directly into our business object,
which is of type Response.
There is another process that is responsible for the consumption of
the message and correctly setting the CorrelationID.
We covered this in an earlier module on synchronous messaging,
so if you need a refresher on that, then I suggest you jump back to that section.
Generally, I find this is quite a limited use case though,
I prefer to use a more asynchronous approach, which means using messageListeners and the DefaultMessageListenerContainer.